Welcome back.
Now that you know a bit about the
importance of cryptography, it is time for
you to learn a bit more about
the concepts of the Caesar Cipher
which you will implement in this lesson.
Suppose you are in a battle and you wanted
to send a message to your sub commanders
to tell the first legion
to attack the east flank.
You don't want your enemies to know your
plan even if they intercept this message.
So, you encrypt it with your cipher
as shown on the second line.
The Caesar Cipher algorithm is named for
Julius Caesar,
the famous Roman emperor who used it.
The basic idea of this algorithm
is to substitute each letter with
the letter obtained by shifting
the alphabet by a fixed amount.
That is a specific number of
letters later in the alphabet.
The amount you shift the alphabet
by is the key for this cipher.
Julius Caesar used a shift
of three letters prior.
Which if you think of the algorithm in
terms of shifting to a later letter will
be the same as 23 letters later.
To see how this algorithm works
we'll walk through an example
of encrypting this message.
We'll use the alphabet to show
how letters are encrypted.
The first letter of the message is F.
We find the letter F in
the alphabet here and
then we go backwards three letters,
E, D, C.
So you would write down a C as
the first letter of your message.
The next letter is I.
We find the letter I in the alphabet here
and then we go backwards three letters, H,
G, F, writing down F as
the next letter of the message.
The next letter is R.
We find the letter R in the alphabet here.
Again, go backwards three letters, Q,
P,O writing down O as the next
letter of the message.
You would continue the same way
through the first word and then,
you would get to a space.
Doing this by hand as Caesar would
have done, the easiest thing to do
is leave the space unchanged and
write down a space in your message.
The next word in space
proceed in the same way.
However, what happens when you get to A?
We find A here,
it is the first letter in the alphabet.
But how do you go three letters backwards?
You have to wrap around to
the end of the alphabet.
From there you go three
letters backwards to Z, Y, X,
writing down X as the next letter.
You continue through the rest
of the message in the same way!
And end up with something that is
unintelligible under casual scrutiny.
However, if you know, or
can figure out the key.
You can decrypt the message.
The process is the same as encrypting,
with a key of 26 minus N.
So, how do you actually do this?
One way: math on letters.
If you took our Coursera course,
programming, and the web for
beginners, you should remember
that everything is a number.
If you're not familiar with this concept,
it is very important in computer science,
as computers can only work with numbers.
In this case,
that principle says that these letter
are actually represented as numbers.
So you can do math on them.
In particular, you could tell Java
to subtract 3 from the letter F and
it would compute the letter C.
However, what if you subtracted
three from the letter A?
Java would not know that you wanna wrap
around and stay only within the alphabet.
So you would have to include some
more mathematical operations or
a conditional statement to wrap around and
get X.
Another way you could do this, which
makes the wrap around case a bit cleaner,
is to pre-shift the entire alphabet.
That is compute the shifts
of each letter at the start,
before you try to encrypt
anything in the message.
For example,
you could take the alphabet and for
a shift of three to the left,
computer string like this one.
We will see the details of how
to do this in a future video.
However, once you have
computed these strings,
You can use them to look up
the encryption of each letter.
For the f at the start of the message you
want to find f in the original alphabet.
Think for a moment about what you have
learned about strings in the past.
What method might you use to find F?
Once you have found F, you look at
the letter in the same position
in the shifted alphabet which is C.
Then you write down that letter
in your encrypted message.
For A which wraps around to X,
you do not have any special case.
Again, you just find A in the original
alphabet, look at the letter in the same
position in the shifted alphabet,
in this case that letter X.
So you write down X in
your encrypted message.
Great, now you know the basic
ideas behind a Caesar Cipher.
However, before your
implement this algorithm,
you will need to learn
a few new Java concepts.
You're going to learn some new
ways to manipulate strings.
As well as for
loops which count over a range of numbers.
For loops which count over ranges of
numbers are particularly important
as you will use the numbers
you count to index into data,
manipulating particular
locations in the sequence.
You are familiar with strings,
which are sequences of characters.
But we'll learn about the new types of
sequences in the rest of this course.
So you will use for loops a lot.
Thank you.